Add nvidia-container-cli functionality notes, from sylabs 26 (#10)
edytuk/singularity-admindocs: configfiles.rst

NVIDIA GPUs / CUDA
==================

The ``nvliblist.conf`` configuration file is used to
specify libraries and executables that need to be injected into the
container when running {Singularity} with the ``--nv`` Nvidia GPU
support option. The provided ``nvliblist.conf`` is suitable for CUDA
11, but may need to be modified if you need to include additional
libraries, or further libraries are added to newer versions of the
Nvidia driver/CUDA distribution.

When adding new entries to ``nvliblist.conf`` use the bare filename of
executables, and the ``xxxx.so`` form of libraries. Libraries are
resolved via ``ldconfig -p``, and exectuables are found by searching
``$PATH``.

Experimental nvidia-container-cli Support
-----------------------------------------

The `nvidia-container-cli
<https://github.com/NVIDIA/libnvidia-container>`_ tool is Nvidia's
officially support method for configuring containers to use a GPU. It
is targeted at OCI container runtimes.

{Singularity} 3.9 introduces an experimental ``--nvccli`` option,
which will call out to ``nvidia-container-cli`` for container GPU
setup, rather than use the ``nvliblist.conf`` approach.

> To use ``--nvccli`` a root-owned ``nvidia-container-cli`` binary must
> be present on the host. The binary that is run is controlled by the
> ``nvidia-container-cli`` directive in ``singularity.conf``. During
> installation of {Singularity}, the ``./mconfig`` step will set the
> correct value in ``singularity.conf`` if ``nvidia-container-cli`` is
> found on the ``$PATH``. If the value of ``nvidia-container-cli path`` is
> empty, {Singularity} will look for the binary on ``$PATH`` at runtime.
> 
> .. note::
> 
>    To prevent use of ``nvidia-container-cli`` via the ``--nvccli``
>    flag, you may set ``nvidia-container-cli path`` to ``/bin/false``
>    in ``singularity.conf``.
> 
> ``nvidia-container-cli`` is run as the ``root`` user during setuid
> operation of {Singularity}. The container starter process grants a
> number of Linux capabilities to ``nvidia-container-cli``, which are
> required for it to configure the container for GPU operation. The
> operations performed by ``nvidia-container-cli`` are broadly similar
> to those which {Singularity} carries out when setting up a GPU
> container from ``nvliblist.conf``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use ``--nvccli`` a ``nvidia-container-cli`` binary must
be present on the host. The binary that is run is controlled by the
``nvidia-container-cli`` directive in ``singularity.conf``. During
installation of {Singularity}, the ``./mconfig`` step will set the
correct value in ``singularity.conf`` if ``nvidia-container-cli`` is
found on the ``$PATH``. If the value of ``nvidia-container-cli path`` is
empty, {Singularity} will look for the binary on ``$PATH`` at runtime.

.. note::

   To prevent use of ``nvidia-container-cli`` via the ``--nvccli``
   flag, you may set ``nvidia-container-cli path`` to ``/bin/false``
   in ``singularity.conf``.

For security reasons, ``nvidia-container-cli`` cannot be used with privileged mode
in a setuid installation of {Singularity}, it can only be used unprivileged.  The
operations performed by ``nvidia-container-cli`` are broadly similar
to those which {Singularity} carries out when setting up a GPU
container from ``nvliblist.conf``.
```
